
ELISA BANIASSAD: Another thing that you can do inside a catch block
when recovering from an exception is actually throw another exception.
So the manager might, for instance, say oh wow,
this whole zoo management thing is so complicated,
and I am running out of money.
So they might throw an additional exception
that indicates that they're going broke because it's just above their pay grade
to deal with it.
The zoo, however, might want to deal with that before the fact that they're
going broke puts them out of business.
So the zoo would then catch that exception,
so that the zoo could continue running.
So let's implement this new exception.
We can call it a broke exception.
And we'll do that the exact same way as before.
We'll make a new class that extends exception.
And now we go to where we want to throw the exception, which
is inside of Manage.
So right inside of our catch statement, we also
want to say throw new BrokeException.
Once again, Java will complain, so we'll add that to the method signatures
so that the exception can be thrown.
And then we go back up to where it's called
and see that the call to manager.manage is upset inside of zoo.main.
Now zoo.main could pass it on and allow the zoo to totally die,
but since the zoo is self-preserving, instead, it
wants to actually handle the exception.
So we're going to surround the call to manager.manage
within zoo.main with the try catch.
And then we'll have it scream out something like, reduce costs,
and I'll take out the stack traces so our output is just a little neater.
So let's see what we get when we run the code.
The zoo is open.
The manager is managing.
The keeper is feeding.
And now we see our exception behavior.
We see the manager catch the not hungry exception, and scream, FEED LESS OFTEN.
And we see the zoo catching the broke exception and saying, Reduce Costs.
Once again, we can place a breakpoint for the piece of this
that we haven't seen.
And we see our new broke exception being thrown,
and we catch it inside of zoo.main.
And then we print out reduce costs, and then the program ends successfully
because we caught the exception.