ELISA BANIASSAD: OK.
So now that we have our specification for insert,
we're all set to start implementing.
No!
We are not going to implement yet, because we have not yet
written our test suite for insert.
The next stage of our four-stage design process is Testing.
And so first, of course, we specify our data abstraction.
Then we think of all of the range of usage scenarios
to make sure our specification is up to scratch.
And then we think about all of the test cases for that specification.
Now, test cases are a great way to actually encode the specification.
Because the specification just sits as comments
on top of the signature of the method, and those comments
aren't checked by anything.
They're not checked by the compiler, they're
not checked by the runtime environment.
They're not checked at all.
So the method could actually be quite out of sync,
or there could be a real error in the specification
and nothing would tell you.
So instead, what it's nice to do is to write tests
that capture the meaning, the semantics, of your specification,
so that you can see whether your method actually satisfies that spec.
So this is kind of part of several design methodologies,
including agile processing, or agile programming, or test-driven design.
So in those, generally what you do is you first write your tests.

And then you run the tests, obviously.
And then those tests will fail, because you have not
done any implementation yet.
You've just written the tests and the stubs of the method
so that the code can compile and run, basically.
But you haven't implemented anything yet.
Then you run them and they fail.
Then you implement your abstraction.
That's not right.
Implement your abstraction until the tests pass.
And in fact, it's not as linear as this.
What you will actually do is you write the tests, you run the tests,
they fail, then you implement.
And then you run the tests again, and then the tests sometimes still fail.
And you kind of keep looping like this until, finally, all of your tests pass.
And at the point that all of your tests pass,
then you know that you have completely implemented your method according
to its specification.
And that is all as long as you have a good, comprehensive test suite.
So next, we're going to look at making a comprehensive test suite.