ELISA BANIASSAD: OK, so now let's think about the requires clause.
The requires clause let's us specify what the caller of a method
has to ensure in order for that method to run properly.
So if we're designing this method, then we
need to be able to give a little hint to the caller of the method
to say that there is a precondition that has
to be satisfied for this method to be able to operate in the expected way.
So now let's look at an example of when we might want to use a requires clause.
Consider this operation.
We've got a deposit method that's probably inside
of a data abstraction-like account.
Here, this deposit method takes an amount to be deposited,
and it just adds that amount to the balance in the account.
Obviously, we don't want amount to be a negative value, because then it's
not actually depositing, it's actually deducting money from the account.
So what we want to tell the caller of this method
in the specification of this method is that this amount should never
be less than 0.
So we write that right into the specification.
We write in a comment, requires amount is greater than or equal to 0.
And that way, the caller knows that if it
sends in an amount that doesn't comply with the specification,
that anything can happen in here, it might light your computer on fire,
or it might take all the money out of the bank, or whatever,
no guarantees are made if this requires clause is not met.
OK, so now let's look at a second example
for the use of a requires clause that we can all kind of relate to.
Because we all know that you are not supposed to divide by 0.
This is kind of a cardinal rule.
So if we were to use this method, we could
write a call that looks like this.
y equals divide 12 and 3.
And we would know that if we made that call,
that everything would be pretty happy.
Because we'd get back 4, and that would be lovely.
But what if we sent in a 0?
Uh-oh.

In this case, what we get back is infinity.
And Java can't pass back infinity.
It just doesn't have the space.
So it would probably cause our whole program to crash.
So to ensure that when this method is called,
the caller, right here, makes sure that this argument is not equal to 0,
we put it in the requires clause.
So we write, requires y is not equal to 0.
And that way, we can make sure that if our caller decides
to call this method with a 0, that they are prepared
for the craziness that might ensue.
And they're prepared to get back infinity.