
ELISA BANIASSAD: The single responsibility principle
tells us that each class should be centered around one
particular concept or responsibility.
So when you're adding new functionality to your system,
you have to ask yourself, where does it best fit.
If it has something to do with specifically manipulating a shape,
then it should go inside of the shape class.
Whereas, if it needs intimate details about a drawing,
it should live inside of the drawing class.
Sometimes, as our code evolves, we'll find
that we've added more and more functionality to a particular module
that gradually turns out not to fit anymore.
So, for instance, the drawing class in our drawing player
used to also have the actual drawing player living right inside of it.
And then gradually we realized that this tiny portion
was such a big responsibility that we actually pulled it out and made it
something of its own that then used the original module by delegation so
that it didn't have to actually live inside of it anymore.
And this allowed us to improve what we refer
to as the cohesion of our individual classes
because now the drawing just knew about being a drawing
and didn't need to know about playing a drawing at all.
And the drawing player class knew everything
there was to know about playing a drawing,
but didn't need to keep track of any of the intimate details about drawings.
So let's think about this concept of cohesion with relation
to the latest version of the hair salon, which involves treatments and treatment
specialists.
So the hair salon class has two fields.
It has the bookings field, and it has a specialists field.
And then it has several operations.
It has a bunch of operations that have to do with bookings,
and then it has another collection of operations
that have to do with specialists and suggesting consultation advice.
So what you can kind of see here and what
I've kind of done with the coloring is I've shown you that this class actually
isn't very cohesive anymore.
Maybe it started out cohesive when it was just about bookings,
but now we've added this whole new behavior.
And this is so frequent, this happens all the time.
When we first added the specialist's behavior, it was tiny
and it only had one thing.
And so it felt like, yeah sure, it's not a whole responsibility,
but gradually, it's become an entire responsibility.
And it has served to cause the cohesion of hair salon
to be really, really poor.
So what we're seeing here is that we should probably
split hair salon into two different classes centered
around each of these responsibilities.
Maybe we still have a hair salon class because we still want our hair salon,
but maybe it would instead use each of these responsibilities.
So we might refactor this--
maybe in a later video--
to look at making a booking specialist and a specialist manager
that deals with each of these individual responsibilities more directly.