
REID HOLMES: Application programming interfaces or APIs
are programmatic interfaces for source code elements.
So just like a user interface for a computer program
is the interface that you interact with as a user,
APIs are the interface that program components
use to interact with one another.
And these APIs can exist in many different forms,
and it really depends on the programming paradigm or the language
that you're using.
For the most common form of method of API are actually method calls
themselves.
So let's take a look at an API.
So in TypeScript, if you wanted to create a data object,
you would just say new Date(), and this gives us a data object that we can
manipulate in a lot of different ways.
And what's really great about this is we didn't have to implement Date(),
we don't need to worry about how it is implemented,
and we know it's going to work across a variety of different browsers
and platforms.
Right, the API for this, the description of what methods are available on this
type are variable defined, so if we wanted to get a string representation
of this date, we just take our date and say toString().

And this also is another example of an API method
that returns a Date instance--
a string representation of this Date.
All right, so it was very easy for us to get
a string representation of the current date
without writing big, large volumes of code.
We don't need to worry about time zones, we
don't need to worry about offsets or daylight savings time,
we just know that this is going to work.
Another example of using an API that you can think of in TypeScript
is just using arrays, themselves, so let's say we create an array like this.

So we create an array, and then we want to just push something onto that array.

So in this instance, the push() method is something that we know exists
on arrays within TypeScript.
We don't need to worry about how it works.
We don't need to worry, again, about its implementation.
We just know it's there, and we know it's going to take this se element
and push it to the back of the array.
It will solve that problem for us.
So APIs are a very powerful concept that really allow us to focus on the code
that we're writing, and interact with the code
that others have written in a very easy way.
So what we're going to do today is we're going to look at various aspects
that we need to keep in mind when we're designing APIs,
so that they're as effective and usable for others as possible.
One of the primary benefits of APIs is they
enforce a separation of concerns between describing the interface--
the programmatic interface for a system and its implementation.
So if we were a large third party API developer,
we might have, for instance, a million lines of our own code
that we want others to be able to use.

And like I said, we want to expose this functionality in a way
that we can sell to people or in a way that other people can
use within their own products, so what we're going to do
is we're going to expose this in the form of explicit APIs.

And what these APIs represent are contracts that the third party API
producer is exposing to customers, and saying,
hey, these are the specific methods.
These are specific pieces of functionality that I support.
And each of these APIs will have a name.
They'll have a set of parameters that they will take as input.
And they have a specified output that they'll return to a customer.
So if I was a customer, my code would be over here.

And as a customer, I might want to use some of these different APIs.
Now, I don't have to use all of them.
So if I just want to use the circle API and the square API, I can, right?
I can just interact with these two parts of the system.
I don't need to take all of it.
And again, I don't need to worry at all about how it was implemented.
So this is great for the third party API producer
because they don't need to feel bound in terms of their implementation, right.
So they can make all of the internal changes they
want without affecting their customers.
And from a customer point of view it's great,
because I don't need to think about the millions and millions of lines of code
they might have implemented here.
I just need to think about the public API pathways that
have been provided for me.
So I can just interact with these.
At the same time though, from the producer's point of view,
if they want to make a change that is going
to modify these APIs in a meaningful way that might break customers,
there's going to be a lot of pushback.
So there's a saying in the API space that API are forever,
and this is really acknowledging the fact
that APIs represent a contract between the producer and consumer of APIs.
So when you think about and design your APIs,
it's important that you do it very carefully
and conscientiously because you're going to be supporting
these for a long time in the future.
One thing to keep in mind with APIs is APIs really describe a very large space
of programmatic interface.
They aren't just restricted to method calls within your own program or method
calls between your program, and libraries, and frameworks.
They also mediate interactions between whole programs--
between programs and back end systems--
and between back systems with one another.
So you can imagine, if you're a credit card processor,
you would use an API to communicate with Amazon, right,
and those will just be two back end systems communicating with one another.
The same thing with your mobile phone-- if you're
using a weather app on your phone, it's communicating using
APIs to access some Weather Service.
Or if you're using SMS, it's using APIs to communicate to the telecom operator.
So there are a lot of different ways in which APIs are used in practice.
So today, we're going to be talking about the general high level
principles behind API design.
And no matter what the nature of the API you're designing,
these principles will apply.
