
ELISA BANIASSAD: OK, so let's dive into execution flow in Java.
So here, we have a method.
And you now recognize what those look like.
And you know how parameter passing works.
But we haven't really looked at how a method executes inside,
how multiple lines of code work together to actually run.
And this is actually a major difference with what you've
seen before in functional programming.
So in functional programming, you would have seen something
that kind of looked like this.
You would have seen a big function that was kind of bracketed by these two
parentheses.
And it would have had a name.
And then maybe it would have had some nested functions
and even nested further.
And all of these things would have had to be evaluated to produce a value
so that you could get a value from the larger scope.
And if you wanted to do a second thing, you wouldn't just put that next to it
and have this run after this.
That's just not how it would work because there
would have to be some larger scope, so that this
would produce a value that would then contribute to this grander thing.
But that isn't actually how it works in an imperative language like Java
at all.
Instead, it more resembles kind of a checklist,
like one, two, three things just happen in sequence.
So here, we make this call to print three things.
It maps or binds the value of 1, 2, 3 to x, y, and z.
And so when we go through the execution of this,
it just flows through in sequence.
It just prints out 1, 2, 3 by saying execute, execute, execute.
And if we wanted to add a fourth thing, we could put a print here as well
and just print something like x again.
And then a fourth thing would happen.
And we can just keep adding lines of code for 50,000--
100 years, and this thing will just get longer and longer.
So that's a real difference.
The other real difference is that these print statements are just statements.
They don't have value of their own.
So you couldn't take one of these print statements
and pass it in to, say, a function or another method.
You can't use it as a parameter.
It's pure effect.
It's just doing something.
So those are the two main differences.
One, that you don't have these statements building up a value.
And two, that these statements don't have individual values themselves.
They are just effect.
So let's just take a look at the general execution flow.
So we would come in here.
Execution would begin here.
We'd flow into the signature of the method.
The variables get bound.
And then we go next statement, next statement, next statement, execute.
And then we go all the way back up.
This is finished.
So then, we go to the next line of code.
And then this one would happen again.
It will come back--
it would come here.
It would then bind 4, 5, and 6.
And then 4, 5, and 6.
And then, I guess, 4--
sorry, I ran out of space--
would print out again since we added the fourth line of code.
And then it would return.
And then the next line of code would execute and so on.
So there's always this feeling of executing everything
that happens inside of one of these blocks of code.
Anything that happens inside of a series of curly brackets
happens in this kind of sequential order.
So now, let's look into visually depicting
the execution flow of a method.
And for that we're going to use something called a flow chart.
And a flow chart just takes into consideration the body of the method.
It doesn't deal with the parameter initialization.
It doesn't deal with the calls in.
That's a different diagram entirely.
So instead what we do is we just kind of go from here to here.
This is the only part that we're dealing with.
So we just draw a little depiction of what happens inside of the method.
So we would just say start.
And that basically says, OK, there's a curly bracket here.
And then we would say print x, which represents the first line of code.
We don't need to be really litigious about the little brackets
here, because just saying print x was enough information.
The only thing you actually do worry about really with these control flow--
or with these flowcharts is that the arrow heads are present.
You don't want to just draw that, because then you might actually start
reading them in the wrong direction.
So no, no, no.
You want to have proper arrowheads.
So print x.
And then print y.
And then print z.

And then end.
And that's the end of the curly brackets.
So this is a very, very simple diagram.
But now we can start to look into more interesting control structures
and see how they would change the structure.