
ELISA BANIASSAD: OK.
So now, we've been through how to draw out
the execution flow of for loops and if statements and regular methods.
And so now, let's do this monster example
and just put the whole thing together.
So we have this method called [? latz ?] going on.
First, it runs a for loop, just printing out all the strings in a list.
Then it checks inside the list, if list contains dog, then it prints out dogs.
If the list doesn't contain dogs, it prints out no dogs.
And then, of course, it prints out done.
Not of course.
Not every method has a "print done" at the end, obviously.
So this is the flow.
Let's draw this whole thing out.
So we start with the "start."
And that's, of course, this curly bracket.
The first statement in here gets its bubble.
Here we go.
So this is a for loop.
And then it's just for string in the list.

And sometimes, you could write also if there is a next.
If more items in the list, you can write something
descriptive in here that links it back to the for loop
and helped you understand the dynamics of what's going on.
And if there are more things in the list,
then we go into this statement, which is the true block of the for loop.
So we say print s.

And then, once this line of code is done,
it doesn't just jump to this line of code.
Instead, it goes back up to the for loop to check again
to see if there were more items in the list.
So that's the loop structure.
And then, if this is false however, we come down here
and we execute this if statement.
So we say if list contains dog.

So that's our descriptive bubble that corresponds to this statement.
And if it does contain the string dog, then we're
going to the true block of this if statement, print dog.
And that's if it's true.
And if it's false, then we go into the else block instead.
So we print no dogs!

And remember, the print dog doesn't feed into l statement.
It doesn't go from here to here.
It's going to skip over the l statement and go straight to print done.

So this if statement is going to end and keep going.
It doesn't loop because it's not a loop.
It's just a conditional statement that will continue executing.
So once print dog has been printed inside of this block,
we'll go right down to print done.
And otherwise, we print no dogs, and then we come down to print done.
And then from print done we go to the end of the method.
So now you know how to depict execution flow in a method,
and you have a couple of good conditional and control structures
under your belt. You now know how to write a for-each loop,
but for loops are pretty similar.
So this gives you the idea of how looping works.
And you know how to deal with conditional behavior.