
ELISA BANIASSAD OK, so now let's look at a statement
that you haven't seen before in Java.
That you're familiar with from functional programming,
but is a little different here.
And that is the if statement.
And that's the way that we execute conditional behavior.
So here we have our if statement.
And I use the word statement very precisely,
because this if statement is a statement.
It is not a function.
It's not an if function.
This whole block of things does not have a value of its own.
Instead, this portion does have a value.
So the if is just a statement to say, if what is evaluated inside here is true,
then execute everything that is inside here.
And if this does not evaluate to true, then just skip it.
That's all it says.
So we can depict this behavior using our flowcharts
so that it makes it really clear exactly how execution
flows through an if statement.
So again, we do it for the whole method.
So we're going to say start, and that's this.
And then our first line of code is our if statement-- if i equals 3.
And then if i equals 3, then what is inside of these curly braces
will execute.
So then if this is true, we would see print, yup.
We don't actually need the brackets inside these bubbles.
These just need to make the point of what line of code they're referring to.
You can even use the line numbers if you want to.
And then print, yay.

So that's the entire true block, and that's
everything that's inside of this curly brackets.
And once this true block is executed, it's
like a compound statement in a way.
And then we just keep going down the list of statements in the method.
So we would come down here and say print done.

Great.
Don't even really need the quotes, but you get the idea.
And then the method ends, so end.
So that's what happens if the if statement is true.
Not the if statement is true-- if the condition evaluates to true,
then we follow into this block.
But if it is not true, then we wrap all the way around the block,
skipping it entirely, ignoring it, and this is just false.
And then we keep executing from print done, and then
keep going down the list of statements.
So that is a simple if statement, and that helps us with conditional behavior
in Java.
So now we can look at a slightly more complicated conditional statement--
not that much more complicated--
which is actually a look-- maybe you're going
to feel a little bit more familiar, because it's the if else statement.
And an if else statement still has one condition
that it tests whether it's true or not.
But if it's not true, then it has a special block of behavior
that executes.
So we still have our true block that we always had.
But then, now we also have a false block that
will execute if this condition returns false, or if this condition fails.
And between the true and the false block,
between this curly bracket and this word else, you cannot have anything at all.
So this has to be just empty space-- if you have a space.
Often, people don't put a space at all.
They just put the else directly underneath this curly bracket,
because these are really supposed to be one compound statement.
So let's just depict the execution flow through an if else statement.
So we'll start at the beginning again.
So we have our start statement, which is our curly bracket.
And then our first line of code is our if statement--
if i equals 3.
And then we come down and we have the true block.
So we'll do this one first.
So true, and then it just has one statement inside of the true block.
So we just have print the word three.

And then, after the true block has finished executing,
it skips over the entire else block.
So it's like this doesn't exist at all.
It just skips all the way down to the bottom of here,
and then keeps executing with the remaining lines of code in the method.
So we're going to skip right down to print done.
And then, of course, print done keeps going
to the end of the method, which is when it returns.
So that's the true block.
This is the little true block.
Then we have the false block.
So with this, i equals 3 evaluates to false.
Then we have these lines of code executed instead.
So we have print not 3, and then print i.
So this one has two lines of code in it.
And then that one's done.
And then we go down to this line of code, because it just keeps going.
And then it continues execution through the method.
So we have these two pathways now, because we
have this conditional statement.
And we have the if block--
what we would call the if block and the else block.
They would never execute at the same time.
You would never have any kind of feedback from the if block
into the else block.
So that the code would never run in a sequence like this.
It is always that either this executes, or this executes.