
REID HOLMES: Getting user stories right is often
challenging, especially for newcomers.
So let's go through a set of guidelines called
INVEST that was developed to help engineers and customers write
effective user stories.

So the first guideline in INVEST is independence.

And what this means is that all the user storage should be independent
from each other as much as possible.
And the reason for this makes a lot of sense
when you think about how you choose user stories from a global list of stories
to be built.
If you have a precedence order saying that we
need to build this feature, then this feature, then this feature, then
this feature there's never any discussion about what your next feature
to build is.
So when you have independent stories, it gives that development team
and customer much more flexibility to choose from a product backlog
to make sure they select the right set of stories for an iteration.
Next, we want to think about our stories in a way that makes them negotiable,
and we can't negotiate about a story.
We can't effectively choose whether or not
we want to pursue that story in any iteration.
So during the negotiation phase, what often ends up
happening is extra features or extra detail is added to the user story.
So it needs to be possible to consider these user stories a work in progress,
or extra detail can be added as needed.
Next, we want to make sure that the user story is actually providing
a meaningful value for the product.

And this gives us an opportunity to step back and think
about the role-goal benefit for a feature.
So as we go through the development of a project,
the value of different features will change over
time as the needs of the product change, as the customers
expectations or opinions change.
So we need to be able to go back and really evaluate
the value of a feature at the time that we're considering building it.
Next, the feature should be estimable.

That is we need to be able to provide an effective costing for their feature.
So if we can't provide a concrete and meaningful cost
for the development of a features, we need
to step back and really add the extra detail that's required,
or break down that feature into a set of features that are more estimable.
All right, so taking that time to make sure
that we have a concrete and real understanding of those costs
is really important.
And this drives us at the next feature, which is small.
It turns out in practice, small features are easier to estimate.
They're easier to reason about the value for.
They're easier to negotiate about, and they also
tend to be more independent because they have smaller subsets of features
within them.
So user stories should be as small as possible
to help drive these other features.
And finally, we have testability, and this goes back
to the definition of done for a story.
We want to always make sure that our stories are testable,
so that both the customer and developer can make sure
that the feature have been developed in a way that
is agreeable to both parties.
So these guidelines really provide a framework
that we can use as we go through and write
our stories to make sure that they're more complete and more useful
in practice.
