
ELISA BANIASSAD: OK, so we've looked at passing parameters into methods,
but what we haven't really looked at is getting a value back out of a method.
Of course, we know that if we pass an object
in that the reference to the object will still live when we come back.
We know that.
But that's not exactly the same as a method having its own return value,
basically having a result of its own.
And that is something that is kind of fundamental to programming,
and of course you're really, really familiar with it
from functional programming.
So in imperative programming and object orientation, you can also do this.
You can also have a method actually have a return value,
actually evaluate to something.
So let's look at an example of this.
So here we have set up a little variable, num, as we do,
and then we are calling a method add one.
Now, notice that we're assigning num to be the value of the result of add one.
We've kind of seen this before, like when
we said dog d equals new dog, what we've been doing
is we've taken the result of new dog and we've assigned it to d.
And we're doing that again here.
So we call our add one method, and the call works exactly the same way.
So we call the add one method, it says OK,
we have a parameter x, let's set that up.
And it takes the argument here, three, and a copies
it down, so three sits in here now.
And then we have a line of code here that says return x equals 1.
There are a couple of interesting things about this method.
The first one is that, instead of saying public void, it says public int.
This is a major difference.
Public void means that a method has no result. It has no return value.
So when it ends it just ends.
It returns, the control flow returns, but it doesn't return a value.
What we're saying here is that it's going to return a value,
and that value is going to be an int.
Then, if you've done that, you also will need a return statement.
So here we have our return statement, and what we're returning
is the result of x plus one.
We're not changing the value of x here, we're
just returning the value of x plus one, which is, of course, going to be 4.
So when we see this, we see that this matches
this, that all lines up very happily, and four travels, when the method ends,
four travels back up to the add one call,
and it says that this entire thing evaluates, more or less, to four.
And then we can assign this value to another variable.
So in this case, we've assigned this value of add one to num.
And so we've taken this four and we've popped it right into here.
So this is how return values work in imperative programming.
A really nice example of returning a simple value in drawing player
is it contains x and contains y methods inside of shape.
We can read the little specification, this little effects line,
that says return true if and only if the given x value is
within the bounds of the shape.
So that means it returns a value.
And, as we can see, it takes parameter x and it returns a Boolean.
And it just has this one line of code.
It's just this conditional check to see if both of these things are true.
So it'll return true if x is between this.x and width,
and then that value can be consumed by whoever calls contains x.
So if we go find usages, we'll see that it's consumed by getShapesAtColumn
and it says, if shape contains x, then add the shape to ShapesAtColumn.
And so we can see that it's actually using the result of
contains x in another conditional statement.
So now take a look at how return values work
if you are returning not a simple primitive type, but something
more meaty like a dog.
So, in this case, it works exactly the same way
as passing an object into a method except for that you're
getting it back out of a method.
So, again, you're dealing with object references, basically.
So let's just walk through this.
Here we have Dog d, so we're setting up a variable d,
and we are not saying equals new dog.
We're not at all.
There is no new dog code right in here.
So we don't set up our dog object.
Instead what's happening is we're calling this method getDog.
If we look down in getDog, getDog actually
is the place where a new dog is made.
So let's just go through that.
Now we're going to call our new dog method.
That sets up this-- it doesn't take any parameters, you'll notice.
There are no parameters here.
We're just making a straight call down.
We're not passing anything in.
So it sets up its myDog little variable, and it makes a new dog, dog instance,
and of course myDog is a reference to dog instance.
And then it says return myDog.
And that's fine, because myDog is a dog, or a reference to a dog.
We just think of it as a dog.
So we're returning this, so exactly the same thing
as when you took something from here and passed it down,
the reverse is exactly happening.
So we're taking something from here, and we're passing it back.
So remember, this getDog call is evaluating.
It gets its own value.
That value is going to be of type dog, and so this dog value
is going to come back up here into this spot.
And getDog will then have a result, which is this return value.
So here we have getDog, and now we're assigning
the result of this computation, which is this, to d.
So we take this and we copy it over here, and, of course,
this is a reference to dog instance.
So, in this way we have passed our dog back out of getDog
and assigned d to be this dog instance.