
ELISA BANISSAD: OK, so now I'm going to show you a bit more technical a loop,
and that's the for loop.
So the foreach loop let you nicely iterate
through a list of things in an array or in a list.
But what if you want to do something just a number of times in a row,
and there's no list involved?
So here I've set up this for loop so that we can elucidate this concept.
Here's a little method called print nums, and it takes an argument, x.
Now, we're going to use that argument x to figure out how many times we
want to iterate through this loop.
So here's the declaration of the for loop.
It has three parts.
The first is setting up the initialization
of what's called a counter.
So we have initialising counter.

The next part of the loop is the actual condition.

And then the last part of this declaration
is actually moving the counter forward, so increment counter.
So this is a tiny little piece of computation
that actually keeps things moving.
So when you think about what's going on, we've got this for loop.
We've decided that our counter is going to start at 0.
We're going to keep the counter going until this counter is
basically equal to the value that's coming in here, to this value of x.
And the way that we keep the counter moving forward so that it doesn't just
infinitely loop with no change-- just sits at 0 forever--
is that we have this little bit of computation
that calculates what the next iteration of the counter should be.
So in another kind of loop, in a while loop, you wouldn't have all of this.
You would just have a condition, and then you
would be responsible to put that incrementing
code right inside of the loop.
A lot of people have heard of infinite while loops,
because sometimes you'll forget to increment
your counter inside of the while loop.
And then it just never ends.
But with a for loop, you're forced to put
the code that increments your counter right into the declaration of the loop.
So let's go through and see exactly how the control flow of this whole method
would look, because the for loop has so many little components
that you can't just draw a big for bubble
and then keep looping back to it.
It's actually got a little bit more going on.
So we have our start, and that's our method declaration.
And then the first thing that happens is that this little local variable
is declared.
It's declared within this scope.
So if you were to use i out here in this scope, you wouldn't be able to use it.
You would get an error.
i only exists inside of the for loop.
So it's a little variable that's actually local to this code block.
So first we declare i, and we initialize it.
We set it to 0.
So int i equals 0.
So that's the very, very first thing that happens.
Next, we get to our for declaration, the condition itself.
So then we get to for i is less than x.

If this condition passes, we go into the loop.
So then we go into print i.
So the first time that we go into the loop, it's going to print 0.
Then it's going to print 1, 2.
And then it's going to die, because if we passed in 3, then
it would die when it got to the value of x.
OK, so after we've printed i, do we go straight back up to our for loop?
No, we do not.
That would be an infinite loop, because we were never incrementing the counter.
The third thing that happens is that i plus plus is run.
So then we get i plus plus.
And after i is incremented, then we go back and check the condition again.
So i starts out at 0.
Then it checks, is i less than x-- in this case, 3?
If it is, we print i.
And then we increment i.
So now i is equal to 1.
Then we say, is 1 less than 3?
Yes, it is.
So we print i.
And i becomes 2.
Is 2 less than 3?
Yes.
And then, is 3 less than 3?
No, it is not.
So then we jump to the end.
And that's how a for loop works.