
ELISA BANIASSAD: OK.
So now I'm going to tell you about something
that you haven't seen before in prior courses
and that is something called iteration.

And iteration is the way in imperative languages
that repetitive behavior can be encoded.
So if you want something done again, and again, and again, and again, you
use something called a loop.
And in functional programming, you use recursion.
You would call the same method again back
on itself or some sort of mutual recursion where you kept going down,
down, down till you got to a base case.
And loops also have base cases, but they don't recurse.
They just repeat.
So there are many kinds of loops in Java and in all imperative languages.
There's a while loop, a for-loop, an until loop.
And in this case, we're going to be using the syntactically simplest one
and that's called a foreach loop.
And that means that for each element of a particular list,
we're going to run through the body of the loop.
And once we have gone through each of the elements of the list,
we will no longer be in the loop.
The loop will exit, and it'll keep going down the statements in the method.
So a list looks like this.
It has items in it.
These can be interesting items like big objects, or they can be little strings,
or integers, or whatever.
They're usually all the same thing.
And in this case, we have a list of strings.
So a list of string.
And how this loop works is that it looks in this thing called the list.
We could have called that anything, by the way.
But I just wanted to name it something that reminded us it was a list.
It looks in this list called the list, and it gets the next value out
of the list.
So it takes the next one, and it assigns s to be that next value.
So at first, the next value is the very first thing in the list.
And then it runs these lines of code, comes back up
to the top of the for-loop, and then gets the next one.
And then s is this value in the list, and then it's this value,
and then it's this value.
And in this way, we iterate over, over, over, over.
And just like with a conditional if statement, you have a block of code.
So this is the block of code if there is, in fact, a next element.
If there is no next element, then we skip this block of code and keep going.
So the only time that there will be no next element
is if we have already gone off the end of the list.
OK.
So let's depict this one to visualize the execution flow through a loop.
So here we have our start of our method.
And then we have our for statement.
And for the list--

and we can say for s in the list or something that tells us
what this is more or less saying.
So for each s in the list--
and s is our little local variable of a string--
then we execute everything that is inside of this block.
So we say, print s.
And then we say, print done item.

And then we don't just keep going.
Because remember we then still have more of a list to do potentially.
So the next thing that we do is we actually loop back, hence the name.
We loop back to here to check whether there
are more strings in our little list.
If there are more, then we keep going through here.
And if there are no more, then this wraps down here to print done.
And then the method ends.
So we do not have a sequential link from print done item to print done.
There is no arrow from here to here.
Because every time we've done the item, we wrap back up
and loop to this for statement to see if there's another item in the list.
And if there is not, only then, do we jump down
and get to the next part of the method.