
{

  "summary": "Overview of Agile principles and Extreme Programming (XP), including its five core principles: communication, simplicity, feedback, courage, and respect, all aiming for a continuously buildable system.",

  "keywords": ["Agile", "Extreme Programming", "XP", "Agile Manifesto", "communication", "simplicity", "feedback", "courage", "respect", "software development"]

}



REID HOLMES: Agile methodologies emerged in the early 2000s as a direct response

to more traditional development methodologies.

Agile methodologies are really all about tightening

the feedback loop between the development team and customers.

Enabling developers to be more flexible and achieve higher development

velocity.

So one of the core documents that really emerged

as a part of the agile methodology revolution

is known as the agile manifesto.

The agile manifesto has 12 key tenets, but I think four of them

really illustrate the intent of the document.

So let's talk about them right now.

So the first is to favor individual interactions over processes and tools.

But this is really about valuing the stakeholders who are involved

in the software development process.

The next is favoring working software over extensive documentation.

So in agile approaches, one common theme we'll see

is that the software should always be build-able and executable.

Next we want to favor customer interactions

over contract negotiations.

And this is really all about bringing the customer into the development team

so that we can receive feedback from them

and respond to it quickly and effectively.

And finally we want to favor agility over planning.

What this is really about is about being flexible to the kinds of feedback

that those customers are giving you and responding

by building a product that more accurately reflects their needs

and wishes.

These principles were really developed to increase customer accountability

within the development team.

By bringing them in and getting them involved in the development process,

we're able to both respond to their needs,

but also keep them really carefully apprised of what's going on

as the product is being developed.

The other great thing about agile methodologies

is they increase development velocity by decreasing the amount of time

that development teams spend building the wrong thing.

And the reason we avoid building the wrong thing

is again by having the customers in the loop,

and giving us feedback along the way.

This also allows development teams to experiment

more by trying different design alternatives and figuring out

which ones work best for the customer.

So it gives the developers a little bit more flexibility

to try different things out and see how they work in practice.

Extreme programming, or XP, was one of the first really influential

agile development methodologies.

At its core, extreme programming was all about having a billable system

at all times.

So the development team would start really small

and slowly grow their system over time in response to customer feedback.

And this is in contrast to the more traditional approaches

where we started upfront with a huge planning effort in the beginning

and built our systems from the top down.

So in XP we really are starting at the bottom

and building our systems up, from the bottom up.

Systems that are built with XP follow five key principles.

So the first is communication.

When we think about communication what we want to do

is we want to encourage the various stakeholders to talk to each other,

essentially at all times.

We want to make it so that the developers can get feedback

from the customers as quickly as possible.

And the customers also have access to the development team.

Next, XP based projects often favor the simplest solution that's possible.

So rather than over-engineering large complicated solutions, what

we want to do is we want to build a simple solution,

try it with the customers and see if it works.

Because if it does, that's great, it's good enough.

Then we can move forward onto other development tasks.

The next is feedback.

So in the feedback phase, what we want to do

is we want to encourage the customers and the developers

to talk to each other.

The expectation here, of course, is that once the development

team receives feedback from the customer, they will try to act on it.

But also that the development team can push back on the customer and let

them know when their feedback isn't going to work

or is going to be really overwhelming or expensive.

So this feedback works both ways.

Both from the customer to the developer, but also from the development

team back to the customers.

Next we have courage, which seems like an odd principal

to have for development methodology.

But what courage is all about is empowering the development

team to try out different experiments.

We want them to try these different experiments

so that we can get feedback on the experiments

with the customer to see if they make the product better.

If they don't, we can throw them away.

But we don't view these as a sunk cost.

We view these as an opportunity to learn about the system, to make it better.

And finally we have respect.

Which is all about respecting all stakeholders opinions and their time.

The most obvious way that this gets codified within XP

is this moniker "don't break the bill".

So when developers commit code to the repository

there's an expectation that the code that they've committed always works,

That it doesn't break the bills, that the rest of the development team

isn't slowed down.

This again goes back to one of the core founding ideas of XP,

which is about always having a billable system.

So XP based projects all follow these five key principals

and keep them in mind for all the development decisions

that they encounter along the way.
