{
  "summary": "Comprehensive overview of Scrum: product/sprint backlogs, 1-3 week sprints, roles (Product Owner, Scrum Master, Team), and key events (planning, daily stand-ups, sprint/process retrospectives).",
  "keywords": ["Scrum", "Agile", "software development", "product backlog", "sprint", "product owner", "scrum master", "stand-up", "retrospective"]
}

REID HOLMES: Scrum-based methodologies represent
the most common form of Agile methodology used in practice today.
In Scrum, we have a product backlog, which represents all of the issues--
those are features and bugs--
that remain to be fixed for a product.
And then we work through a series of sprints that
are usually one to three weeks long.
In each sprint, we're working on what's known as the sprint backlog.
So this is a subset of the product backlog, which
contains just those specific issues that we want
to work on in the individual sprint.
Scrum-based methodologies don't-prescribe specific engineering
practices that a team needs to follow.
The team themselves will figure out what makes the most sense for the product
that they're trying to build.
But all Scrum-based teams do have these three high level stakeholder roles.
So first, we have the product owner.
The product owner is the person who acts as the proxy for the client,
or is the client themselves.
So their primary role is to prioritize issues
that are being worked on in a sprint, and to evaluate the team's output
to make sure that the work they've made on specific issues
matches their expectations.
Next, we have the Scrum Master.
The Scrum Master's job is to manage the development process.
So they're not the manager of the team, but they're the manager of the process.
They make sure that the team is on track,
and is working specifically on the issues for that sprint
that the product owner has prioritized as being important.
And finally, we have the team themselves.
So Scrum-based teams are typically five to seven people,
and span a variety of disciplines.
So we might have developers, QA, and ops all on the same Scrum team,
working together to build a product.
So as we mentioned before, the product backlog
is all of the issues that are assigned to a development team.
And an important part of the Scrum process
is to go through the product backlog and figure out
through a comprehensive planning process what this subset is that you're going
to address in an individual sprint.
Because at the end of your sprint-- which is one to three weeks long,
but has a fixed direction.
So it's important to note that each team will know how long their sprints are.
At the end of the sprint, the product needs to be shippable.
So you need to make sure that the issues that you choose from the product
backlog to deliver in an individual sprint
are achievable within the timeline allocated for that sprint.
So this planning process is an important step.
We're going to be going through all of these issues.
And this is going to be done in conjunction with the product owner,
because the product owner is going to have some notion, based
on their own priorities, which ones of the features in the product
backlog that are most important to them, will give them the most value.
But at the same time, the technical team is going to know how hard--
or they're going to talk about how hard it
is to actually deliver those features.
Because if they ask for a feature, if the product owner asks
for a feature that will take more than one sprint,
or they ask for too many features to deliver in one sprint,
it's the team's role-- and a crucial role-- for them
to push back and say that this is too much to be done,
and we need to find a happy medium that works for both stakeholders.
So planning process is all about taking this product backlog,
figuring out what we can build, and turning it into this sprint backlog,
right?
To figure out what that subset is.
And that's what flows into our individual sprints.
So it's the subset of issues that we--
the development team essentially guarantees
that they're going to deliver over the course of a sprint.
So once we have the sprint backlog, what we
need to do next is to start working on our individual sprints.
Now one aspect that is common across all Scrum methodologies
is this notion of a stand-up meeting.
So the stand-up meeting is something that happens frequently, every day,
in fact.
Where the team comes together, stands up, and goes over their progress.
This is the opportunity for all of the team members
to say what's blocking them, what they worked on last,
and what they're working on next.
So this is really only a 10 to 15 minute status update for the team,
so that everyone knows how they're doing as a collective group.
Now these meetings are where the Scrum Master
takes a particularly important role.
It's their job to make sure that everyone on the team
is delivering what they said the day before they were going to do, and make
sure that the team works together to figure out how to resolve
any problems if they come up.
So if I say that I'm behind, and I'm having
a lot of trouble with the feature that I'm building,
it's the Scrum Master's job to help figure
out how the team can adjust and make it so that we can collectively
deliver this feature on time.
And again, these happen absolutely every single day.
And at the end of the sprint, we have this notion or this phase
called the ceremony phase.
And in the ceremony phase, a variety of different things happen.
But the first thing that happens is we'll have the sprint retrospective.
And this is where the technical team will go and demo
all of the features they added to the product to the product owner.
So it's a chance for the product owner to concretely reflect and see
what has been built over the course of the sprint,
and provide really good feedback for the team
so they can use that to inform their development and planning
process for the next phase.
There's also an opportunity for a process retrospective.
This is where the team goes and looks at how did their planning process go?
How did the development process go?
How did they overcome obstacles that they encountered?
And really think about whether or not they
need to change their whole internal processes,
so they can be more effective as a team in the next sprint.
So this is an important notion, where the team will actually
be reflective on how they did, and use this reflection
to make themselves better as a team.
And this is, again, why Scrum doesn't lay out
a lot of specific recommendations about how each team should operate.
It instead empowers the team to really think about what they did
and make things better.
And then at the end of this ceremony phase
is actually where we go and we do this planning, right?
So we plan for the next sprint after we've
gone and gone through and reflected on how this sprint has gone itself.
