
{
  "summary": "The Spiral Model is an iterative, prototype-driven software development methodology that cycles through planning, risk analysis, engineering, and customer validation, typically annually, to mitigate building the wrong product.",
  "keywords": ["Spiral Model", "software development", "methodology", "iterative", "prototype", "risk analysis", "validation", "traditional processes", "customer feedback"]
}

REID HOLMES: The spiral methodology emerged
in the 1980s as a direct response to some
of the shortcomings of more traditional waterfall based development strategies.
In the Spiral Model, what's important to note
is that we're going to perform multiple iterations over the product, which
give us the opportunity to build prototypes
that can be validated with customers before we continue on
and do more development.
So the beginning of the development project in the spiral methodology,
we start here, and the first thing we do, is we do planning.
This is where we figure out what the requirements for this iteration,
for this prototype are going to be.
Once we know we're going to build, we'll go on and move into risk analysis.
In risk analysis, we're going to figure out what could go wrong.
What are the sources of risk that are present within this iteration
of the prototype.
Once we know those are, we'll go and move on into engineering.
Engineering is traditionally just like software development.
This is where we're going to implement the system and build it out.
Then we'll move on into validation.
The thing to note about validation is this isn't just performed with QA.
In the validation phase of a spiral model project,
we're actually going to be taking our prototype
and checking with the customer to make sure it actually builds and provides
functionality that they actually want.
We're going to be actively soliciting customer feedback here.
One thing to note is this whole process, this spiral process,
takes about a year per iteration for most systems.
About once a year we're going to be checking back in with our customers.
But once we have this customer feedback, we
can consider continuing through the process again.
So we're going to plan out what we want to build, what risks there are,
we're going to build the system, and we'll validate it again.
Once we get this second prototype built, we
can again go and validate back with our customers,
we can check with them to see if we need to do another iteration
or if the product is actually ready.
This is, again, a direct response to the shortcomings in waterfall
where we want to go and collect this customer feedback along the way
to make sure that we're actually building the right product, which
is a huge, huge risk to many software products.
It's really easy to go off and put your head down and build
a system, and five years later, having built something, but not something
that anybody actually wants.
Building the wrong thing is probably the most common way
that systems fail in practice.
The Spiral Model is really trying to address
that risk by checking with the customer at the end of each design iteration.
There are two primary shortcomings of the Spiral Model.
The first is that effectively documenting the risk analysis process
can be quite overwhelming.
The next is that waiting for customer feedback for a whole year at a time
can also really slow down the development process
by delaying feedback that a customer could have given, essentially,
right away.
