
REID HOLMES: When we are embarking on the API design process,
there are two main questions we really want to keep in mind.
First, what is the goal of this API?

And next, who is the API actually for?

These two high level questions really help us drive the API design process.
When we were thinking about the goal of the API,
this drives us to make decisions about languages, about protocols,
about platforms, and about data formats.

Whereas when we think about the customer,
this leads us to a different set of non-technical questions.
So this leads us to think about more of a versioning and about licensing
and authentication.

These are all really important concerns when we're designing our APIs,
and we want to keep them in mind.
So when think about it, what we want to really be focusing on what is the goal
and who is the customer so that we can answer these questions effectively.
Now again, there are a lot of different ways
that we can actually design an API.
Let's step through a prototypical four step process.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to start with a short one page
or half page specification.

Like we said just previously, this specification
really captures what the goal of the API is
and who it's for, along with those other answers about how
it should be versioned, what language it should use, what platforms etc.
Next what we want to do is we want to solicit feedback.

And again, this should sound really similar to our prior discussions
about process and coming up with specifications in the first place.
So we need to go and talk to people and really
make sure that our APIs fulfill the needs that we actually
have without incurring some long term future problem in terms
of technical debt, support, or other directions our organization might
go in.
Next what we want to do is we want to create concrete prototypes.

And this is often really important in the API space
because we're designing these really short names.
API is really just one method at a time, when we think about it,
or a type or two at a time.
Because we want to create a prototype system
that uses our API to accomplish some specific tasks, and what this will do
is it will help us to understand how users will use our API.
So in general, we don't want to create one API.
We don't want to create two APIs.
We want to do it three, we want to do it at least three times.
We create three different clients that use an API.
And by taking a look at three different usages of our API,
we can get a sense of what forms of boilerplate
that will be within the system, within the client code, that maybe we
can address.
What kinds of errors our clients might also use when they're using our API,
and we could try to address these problems by improving the API itself.
And finally were happy with our API, we want to build documentation.

And this documentation should obviously clarify what the API is
and what it does, but is also extremely helpful if the error states
for the API are clearly documented and if examples of usage are given.
So if we look at these strong examples of API documentation online,
you'll find clear examples of how the API is
used to accomplish specific tasks, because when we think about our APIs
and how people use them, they don't use them in the same way we produce them.
We produce an API one at a time.
But as a user, you're using that API to accomplish a task.
So taking a task-centric view when we're building our documentation
will make it a lot easier for people to use.
So this really is an iterative process, just to reinforce that.
We will start with our spec, solicit the feedback
and prototype that we might need to go back to the beginning.
Or we may realize that our prototypes are no good,
and we're going to throw that away altogether.
So this is an iterative process so that we can refine or APIs
before they're released, because once we release that API, it really is forever.
And we're going to be stuck supporting it into the indefinite future.