
REID HOLMES: APIs are used in a diverse set of ways,
and for some organizations, they provide API platforms
as their sole means of revenue.
So for these companies, they need to think
about how they design their APIs extremely carefully,
because if the APIs they provide to people aren't useful for them,
they'll move on to other companies that can provide the functionality that they
care about.
So it's hard to overstate how important taking the time to do API design really
is.
Of course, if you are one of these API design--
API platform companies, there are also other concerns
that you're going to need to worry about as
well, such as authentication, versioning,
and how you migrate people from between different versions of an API.
Because as a product moves forward--
of course, we save that API forever.
We always want to provide backwards compatibility.
We also want to have ways to encourage people
to move to new versions of APIs that are easier for us, perhaps, to maintain,
or can move our users to better aspects of functionality.
So with these kinds of design considerations
that we've talked about over the last few videos
are relevant especially in this platform case,
because this is the core business value that these companies produce.
In summary, APIs are the programmatic services over applications.
And in some cases, this will just be enabling communication
between two different classes, and in other cases
it will enable communication between two different products or even two
different devices, for instance a mobile device talking to a server.
But there are a lot of different kinds of APIs that are used in practice.
And one reason to spend the time to get your design right
is that most APIs, it turns out, end up being used internally.
All right, so the user of your API, the consumer of the API you just created,
might be the developer sitting next to you at work,
and you don't want them to be angry at you for your lack of care
when you design your APIs.
Another common case is to encounter an API that is terrible.
When you look at the documentation, you'll
realize that you wrote it a year ago.
And then you're just going to end up being mad at yourself,
and that kind of self-loathing really isn't healthy.
Finally, when we think about our APIs, it
is really important to think about and spend the time getting the design
right, because again, while APIs seem extremely simple,
they have an incredible impact in the overall value of our products,
so getting them right is really time well spent.