ELISA BANIASSAD: Today we're going to be talking about extracting
object oriented design.
So what that means is that we're going to look at some code
and we're going to be extracting three different models from that code.
We're going to extract class hierarchy.
We're going to extract associations.
Associations are the relationships between classes
if they need or depend on one another.
And finally, we're going to look at extracting a sequence diagram, which
is a dynamic diagram of how objects relate to one another
through a certain sequence of execution.
We have this little system, which loosely
models an educational institution with courses in students.
Let's go back to the light board and look
at the declarations of each of these classes more specifically.
So here we have all of the declarations of classes from our project,
just so that we have them on hand while we are doing our diagram.
So we have of course and instructor.
Then we have on campus student, which extends student.
Then we have online student, which also extend student.
And we have an abstract class student, which implements teachable.
And finally, we have the interface teachable.
So I've redrawn all of the classes in our model as boxes.
And now this is kind of a concise variation on the class boxes
that you've seen before.
Remember you would have seen a box like this with the name up here
and operations up here.
We could have even had a third bit, which had fields in here.
This is just this top portion, which is all
we really need for depicting strictly the hierarchy of our model.
So you already actually know how to do this hierarchy depiction,
so I'm just going to quickly remind you just so
that you have it present in your minds.
The first thing to remember is that you always want to put abstract classes
and interfaces denoted really clearly in a diagram.
So students is abstract, and we want to write that down and interface.

It's really important to have those present in the diagram
because that's a major part of your design reasoning, the kind of type
of class that something is.
Next, remember we look at the extends and implements relationships
and we depict those on a diagram.
So here we can see that both on campus and online student extend students,
so we can draw a line like this that says that both of these extend student.
And then we can see that student implements teachable interfaces.
So remember that it's going to be a dashed arrow with a big arrowhead.
So now that we have this under our belts,
we're ready to move forward and start looking at how
to add associations to our diagram.