
ELISA BANIASSAD: So actually our Drive Forward method here is unimplemented,
but we have a sequence diagram to guide us,
so let's work out the implementation for Drive Forward.
So the first thing that we do is we look at the method that's
being called at the beginning of the sequence diagram.
This is a method that's going to live inside of this class.
So here, inside of Auto Driver, we want to implement a Drive Forward method.
So we'll simply write public void because there doesn't seem
to be any return type, driveForward.

We'll also notice that it takes a parameter called seconds,
so that's probably an integer.
We can put it as an integer now and then work on it actually
in coding if it's not that.

So here we have our parameter, and now we're
ready to implement the body of our method.
So the next thing that we want to look at
is the fact that we have a loop in this method,
so you can see here we're looping for the number of seconds.
So we translate this loop, which would normally span all the way over to here,
but because it is too confusing visually,
we just have it spanning like this.
And so we turn this right into a for loop,
for int i equals 0 i is less than seconds i plus plus.
And that gets us the entire extent of our for loop.
If this had been a list that we were iterating over,
we could have written a for each loop instead.
Then we see that what happens initially is
that we make a call to another object, this Front Sensor.
And inside of Auto Driver, we have a field, front sensor.
So we make a call, fs.tooclose, and we're
storing the Boolean value of that.
So we would say boolean tooClose equals front sensor dot too close
and store the value of the result in this too close variable.
Then we see that we have an "if" statement as well,
so this "if" statement actually uses the results of this.
Now we could have just actually put this right into the "if" statement,
but we wanted to just keep it cleanly in phases.
You can refactor that later.
So now we write our "if" statement, if tooClose,
and then we do the body of the "if" statement.
So then we look at the class that's being called, it's the Speed Regulator.
This is the object that is being referred to there,
and we see that we're going to be calling slowDown
on this object, Speed Regulator.
So we're going to say SR.slowDown.

That looks like sto, but that should slowDown.

And then we are done because the sequence diagram simply ends.
And the method returns, but it doesn't return a value,
so there's nothing to put here.
Let's take a look at this implementation in our self-driving car project.
We're in the auto driver class, and we want
to implement this drive forward method based on the sequence diagram.
So let's write out everything we've done on the board.
I'm going to condense the two lines on the board
and just say if FrontSensor.TooClose instead of having a Boolean
and then checking it.
And then we'll say speedRegulator.slowDown,
which is actually the whole thing.
But if we run it, we won't actually be able to see what's going on,
so let's add some print statements.
Now if we run it, we'll be able to see what's happening in our code.
We're driving forward and slowing down randomly.
And every time we run this, we get a slightly different output.